DOCS-1691: Docs for ML Models in registry (#2447)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/registry/_index.md

menuindent: true
---

The [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) is the central place where you can browse:

- [ML models](/ml/) to deploy with machine applications like [computer vision](/ml/vision/)
- {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="modular-resource" text="modular resources" >}} that add capabilities to your machine beyond what is built-in to `viam-server`

### ML models

Viam provides the ability to train, upload, and deploy ML models within the platform.
See [Machine Learning](/ml/) for more information.

> The Viam registry hosts pretrained ML models that users have made public, which you can use to deploy classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot instead of training your own.

Reviewer: I don't know that pretrained has much meaning here. You can't do any additional training, so they're jsut trained I guess? Sorry, I know we've already looked at this. 
```suggestion
The Viam registry hosts ML models that users have made public, which you can use to deploy classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot instead of training your own.
```

Author: No worries sounds good

Author: Can I still use trained? I feel it makes it more clear

Reviewer: yep sounds good

menuindent: true
---

> The [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) is the central place where you can browse [ML models](/ml) to deploy with machine applications like [computer vision](/ml/vision/), or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="modular-resource" text="modular resources" >}} that add capabilities to your machine beyond what is built-in to `viam-server`.

Reviewer: I think this will avoid people missing the second part of the sentence when skimming over it
```suggestion
The [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) is the central place where you can browse:

 - [ML models](/ml) to deploy with machine applications like [computer vision](/ml/vision/)
 - {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="modular-resource" text="modular resources" >}} that add capabilities to your machine beyond what is built-in to `viam-server`
```

### ML models

Viam provides the ability to train, upload, and deploy ML models within the platform.
See [Machine Learning](/ml/) for more information.

> You can use these ML models to make detections or classifications on-machine with an [`mlmodel` vision service](/ml/vision/mlmodel/).

Reviewer: Think this goes better with 40 and following
```suggestion
```

> The Viam registry hosts pretrained ML models that users have made public, so that you can save time spent training complicated models and quickly deploy classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot.

Reviewer: I think the saving time aspect is accurate but sounds a bit marketingy?
```suggestion
The Viam registry hosts pretrained ML models that users have made public, which you can use to deploy classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot instead of training your own.
```

> The Viam registry hosts pretrained ML models that users have made public, so that you can save time spent training complicated models and quickly deploy functional classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
The Viam registry hosts pretrained ML models that users have made public, so that you can save time spent training complicated models and quickly deploy classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot.
```

The Viam registry hosts pretrained ML models that users have made public, which you can use to deploy classifiers or detectors for your use case onto your robot instead of training your own.
You can also [upload your own model to the registry](/ml/upload-model/).

> To use an existing model from the registry, [deploy the ML model to your robot](/ml/deploy//#create-an-ml-model-service) and use a [vision service](/ml/vision/) to make detections or classifications on-machine.

Author: ```suggestion
To use an existing model from the registry, [deploy the ML model to your robot](/ml/deploy//#create-an-ml-model-service) and use a [Vision service](/ml/vision/) to make detections or classifications on-machine.
```

> You can also upload your own model to the registry.
> 
> - You can deploy a model to your robot through an [MLModel service like `tflite_cpu`](/ml/deploy/).
>   Select **Builder** and **Deploy Model** tabs and follow [these instructions](/ml/deploy/#create-an-ml-model-service) to deploy the model to your robot.
> - To add an ML model to the registry, [upload the model publicly](/ml/upload-model/).

Reviewer: This is a bit chaotic in that these bullet points don't relate to each other really. How about simplifying the usage bullet and leaving the detail to the links and then merging the second bullet the upload link and merging that with the first sentence:

```suggestion
You can also [upload your own model to the registry](/ml/upload-model/).

To use an existing model from the registry, [deploy an ML model to your robot](/ml/deploy//#create-an-ml-model-service) and use a [Vision Service](/ml/vision/) to make detections or classifications on-machine.
```

### Modular resources

Viam provides built-in support for a variety of {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resources" >}}:

- Various types of hardware {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}}.
- High-level functionality exposed as {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}}.

If the component or service you want to use for your project is not natively supported, you can use _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="modular-resource" text="modular resources" >}}_ from [the Viam Registry](#the-viam-registry) or [create your own](#create-your-own-modules).
If the model of component or service you want to use for your project is not built-in to `viam-server` and available for configuration by default, you can use a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="model" >}} from a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="module" >}}.

> ## The Viam Registry

Author: Didn't think this needed to be heading w/ heading of page

To configure a modular resource on your robot, [add new models that others have created](/registry/configure/#add-a-modular-resource-from-the-viam-registry) from the [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) or [create your own](#create-your-own-modules).

The [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) is the central place where you can browse {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="modules" >}} that add capabilities to your machine beyond what is built-in to `viam-server`.

> A module provides one or more {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="modular-resource" text="modular resources" >}}.

Author: I wanted to take line 41 out because it seems to introduce more confusion than clarity, but open to suggestions

You can see details about each module in the [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) on its dedicated module page.
You can integrate modules into any Viam-powered machine.

Be aware that unlike natively supported models, modular resources are not documented on the Viam Documentation.

> Documentation for each modular resource is available on its GitHub page, which is linked from the models' page on [the registry](https://app.viam.com/registry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documentation for each modular resource is available on its GitHub page, which is linked from the models' page on [the registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) or by clicking on the model name in the above search.
```
